# **Capstone Project** 
## Inventory Management and Pareto Analysis of a Retail Store

### Interpretation of Results and Recommendation

- The results obtained after the thorough examination in identifying dead inventory, states that almost one-fifth of the inventory merely occupies shelf real estate and contributes a negligible amount to sales. These are the items that do not act as a supplement to top contributors and prevent further expansion of product variety. To prevent this, staff responsible for ordering inventory should, at minimum, consider the product’s popularity from the websites stated earlier. In addition, a customer request form should be kept, such that, if a case exists that the product is not popular or has less chances of being sold, then at least, there is one fixed customer who is certain to buy it, and therefore, a return on investment could be guaranteed over a steady period.

- A stock-out not only impacts the steady flow of revenue, but also, the store’s reputation. Hence, key SKUs should always exist on the shelf. Revenue pareto(s) hold for every beverage department, and the top sellers are already highlighted in this project, though, a subset of the total inventory, but generalizes a pattern. In most cases, it is recommended to order the top movers in bulk, whenever they are listed on monthly or quarterly sales, thereby, maximising the profits. Made clear from the aerial image of Google Maps, that these retail stores depend on the number of customers visits per day, and not on the profit margins, as all stores are price setters, indicating a perfect competition type of market. Moreover, it states that there is low barrier to entry, same type of products being sold, hence lowering the profits.
  
- In such a condition, a new entrant like, “Metro Wines” could greatly impact sales and therefore, a decline of 33 percent in monthly sales was seen. Scenarios like this should be dealt with precision and a considerable amount of support from the government could help for the long run. More precisely, a petition could be signed by the pre-existing stores, that there should be a restriction on the new entry, where the conditions are already worse. A circle of fixed radius should be devised, for the ease of operations of stores existing inside it. On the other hand, the store could try to stock in different products from its competitors, therefore, separating from the general market.

In a nutshell, all the points listed here are in the form of recommendations to the business owner. Therefore, necessary actions, if feasible, should only be taken in accordance with their business practices and ethics.
